# DevOps Interview Questions

<details>
 <summary>162.What is the use of tee command in Unix?</summary>
  <p>We use tee command in a shell to read the input by user (standard input) and write it to screen (standard output) as well as to a file.</p>
  <p>We can use tee command to split the output of a program so that it is visible on command line interface (CLI) as well as stored on a file for later use.</p>
  <p>Syntax is tee [-a] [-i] [file]</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>163.How will you count the number of lines and words in a file in Unix?</summary>
  <p>We can use wc (word count) command for counting the number of lines and words in a file. The wc command provides very good options for collecting statistics of a file. Some of these options are:</p>
   <p>l:This optio ngives line count</p>
   <p>m:This option gives character count</p>
   <p>c :This option gives byte count</p>
   <p>w:This option gives word count</p>
   <p>L:This option gives the length of the longest line</p>
   <p>In case we give more than one files as input to wc command then it gives statistics for individual files as well as the total statistics for all files.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>164.What is Bash shell?</summary>
  <p>Bash stands for Bourne Again Shell. It i sfree software written to replace Bourne shell.</p>
  <p>We can see following line in shell scripts for Bash shell.</p>
  <p>#!/bin/bash</p>
  <p>In Bash we use ~/.profile at login to set environment variables.</p>
  <p>In Bash we can execute commands in batch mode or concurrent mode.</p>
  <p>Inbatchmode commands are separated by semi colon.</p>
  <p>% command1; command2</p>
  <p>In concurrent mode we separate commands by & symbol.</p>
  <p> % command1 & command2</p>
</details>



<details>
 <summary>165. How will you search for a name in Unix files?</summary>
  <p>The typical DevOps workflow in our organization is as follows:</p>
  <p>We can use grep command to search for a name or any text in a Unix file.</p>
  <p> Grep stands for Globaly search a Regular Expression and Print.</p>
  <p> Grep command can search for a text in one file as well as multiple files.</p>
  <p> We can also specify the text to be searched in regular expression pattern.</p>
  <p> % grep ^z *.txt </p>
  <p>Above command searches for lines starting with letter z in all the .txt files in current directory.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>166. What are the popular options of grep command in Unix?</summary>
  <p>In Unix, grep is one of the very useful commands. It provides many useful options. Some of the popular    options are:</p>
  <p>% grep -i :This option ignores case while doing search.</p>
  <p>% grep -x :This option is used to search exact word in a file.</p>
  <p>% grep -v:We use this option to find the lines that do not have the text we are searching.</p>
  <p>% grep -A10:This option displays 10 lines after the match is found.</p>
  <p>% grep -c:We can use it to count the number of matching lines.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>167. What is the difference between whoami and who am i commands in Unix?</summary>
  <p>Both the commands whoami and who am i are used to get the user information in Unix</p>
  <p>When we login as root user on the network, then both whoami and who am i commands will show the user as root.</p>
  <p>But when any other user let say john logs in remotely and runs su -root, whoamiwil show root, but who am i will show the original user john.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>168. What is a Superuser in Unix?</summary>
  <p>Superuser is a special user account. It is used for Unix system administration. This user can access all files on the file system. Also Superuser can also run any command on a system.</p>
  <p>Generaly Superuser permission is given to root user.</p>
  <p>Most of the users work on their own user accounts. But when they need to run some additional commands, they can use su to switch to Superuser account.</p>
  <p>It is a best practice to not use Superuser account for regular operations.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>169. How will you check the information about a process in Unix?</summary>
  <p>We can use ps command to check the status of a process in Unix. It is short for Process Status.</p>
  <p>On running ps command we get the list of processes that are executing in the Unix environment.</p>
  <p>Generaly we use ps -ef command. In this e stands for every process and f stands for full format.</p>
  <p>This command gives us id of the process. We canuse this id to kill the process.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>170. What is the use of more command with cat command?</summary>
  <p>We generaly use cat command to display the contents of a file</p>
  <p>If a file is very big then the contents ofthe file wil not fit in screen, therefore screen will scroll forward and in the end we just see the last page of information from a file.</p>
  <p>With more command we can pause the scrolling of data from a file in display. If we use cat command with more then we just see the first page of a file first. On pressing enter button, more command will keep changing the page. In this way it is easier to view information in a file.</p>   
  <p>When using the cat command to display file contents, large data that does not fit on the screen would scroll of without pausing, therefore making it dificult to view. On the other hand, using the more command is more appropriate in such case because it wil display file contents one screen page at a time.</p>
</details>

<details>
 <summary>171. What are the File modes in Unix?</summary>
  <p>In Unix, there are three main permissions for a File:</p>
    <ol>
        <li>r = It means a user can read the file</li>
        <li>w = It means that a user can write to this file</li>
        <li>x = It means the a user can execute a file like a shell script</li>
    </ol>
  <p>Further there are three permissionsets.</p>
    <ol>
        <li>Owner:User who created the file</li>
        <li>Group:This applies to user of a group to which owner belongs</li>
        <li>Other:This is rest of the users in Unix system</li>
    </ol>
  <p>With the combination of these three sets permissions of file in Unix are specified.</p>
  <p>E.g. If a file has permissions -rwxr-xr-- , it means that owner has read, write, execute access. Group has read and execute access. Others have just read access. So the owner or admin has to specificaly grant access to Others to execute the file</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>172.  We wrote a shell script in Unix but it is not doing anything. What could be the reason?</summary>
  <p>After writing a shell script we have to give it execute permission so that it can be run in Unix shell.</p>
  <p>We can use chmod command to change the permission of a file in Unix.In general we use chmod+x to give execute permission to users for executing the shell script.</p>
  <p>E.g. chmod+x abc.txt will give execute permission to users for executing the file abc.txt</p>   
  <p>With chmod command we can also specify to which user/group the permission should be granted. The options are:
  </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>173.</summary>
    <p> u is the owner user </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>174.</summary>
    <p> g is the owner group </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>175.</summary>
    <p> o is others </p>
</details>

<details>
    <summary>176.</summary>
    <p> a is all users </p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>177. What is the significance of 755 in chmod 755 command?</summary>
  <p>We use chmod command to change the permissions of a file in Unix. In this command we can pass the file permissions in the form of a three-digit number</p>
  <p>In this number 755, first digit 7 is the permissions given to owner, second digit 5 is the permissions of group and third digit 5 is the permissions of all others.</p>
  <p>Also the numbers 7 and 5 are made from following rules:</p>   
  <p>4 = read permission</p>
  <p>2 = write permission</p>
  <p>1 = execute permission</p>
  <p>So 7 = 4 + 2 + 1 = Read + Write + Execute permission</p>
  <p>5 = 4 + 1 = Read + Execute permission</p>
  <p>In out example 755 means, owner has read, write and execute permissions. Group and others have read and execute permissions</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>178.  How can we run a process in background in Unix? How can we kill a process running in background?
</summary>
  <p>In Unix shell we can use symbol & to run a command in background.</p>
  <p>E.g. % ls -lrt &</p>
  <p>Once we use & option it runs the process in background and prints the process ID. We cannot down this process ID for using it in kil command.</p>   
  <p>We can also use ps -ef command to get the process ID of processes running in background.</p>
  <p>Once we know the process ID of a process we can kil it by folowing command:</p>
  <p>% kil -9 processId</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary>179.How will you create a read only file in Unix?</summary>
  <p>We can create a file with Vi editor, cat or any other command. Once the file is created we have to give read only permissions to file. To change file permission to read only we use following command:</p>
  <p>%chmod 400 filename</p>
</details>



